# Developer Guide: XML / Binary Editor #



## Editor ##

The XML Editor extends the Eclipse editing environment. Its functions include:
  * enables the user to edit the LLRP XML files loaded from the Repository
  * dynamically transfers the XML-format LLRP message to Java Objects through LTK-Java API and passes to Graphical Editor and Binary Viewer

The whole editor framework is generated by the Eclipse plug-in assistant. Here is the short description of the generated files:
  * `ColorManager.java` maintains the color table used in XML-based editors to hihight different tags.
  * `ConfigrationModel.java` keeps the information of whole list of reserved words (tags). The model are passed to `LLRPContentAssistant.java`.
  * `LLRPContentAssistant.java` provides auto-completion features.
  * `IXMLColotConstants.java` includes constant color values used for sections in LLRP XML files.
  * `MessageElement.java` represents tree node in the XML file.
  * `TagRule.java` recognizes the `Tags` part in the XML file.
  * `XMLPartitionScanner.java` separates `Partitions` in the XML file.
  * `XMLTagScanner.java` recognizes tokens in the XML file.
  * `XMLWhitespaceDetector.java` recognizes whitespaces in the XML file.
  * `XMLScanner.java` implements the XML parser.

## Binary ##

The Binary Viewer is a read-only view embeded in the Eclipse's editing area. It only receives the updated LLRP message and reflects its binary format, but user cannot modify its value.

When user switchs from _XML Editor_ or _Graphiccal Editor_ to _Binary Viewer_, the LLRPEditor module firstly generates the `LLRPMessage` instance, if there is any critical (Exception caught), switching to the _Binary Viewer_ is disabled. This validation work guarantees that the user always see a valid binary interpretation of the message.

In memory the binary message stores as a `BinaryMessage` instance, which is transformed by `BinaryMessageHelper.java`. The `BinaryMessage` holds attributes of binary strings (`BinarySingleValue` class), which assembles the whole binary message.